README.md, before:

# seqr-helm
Helm charts for the *seqr* platform

## Overview
This repo consists of helm charts defining the seqr platform.  [Helm](https://helm.sh) is a package manager for [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io), an open source system for automating deployment and management of containerized applications.  

1. The [*seqr*](charts/seqr) application chart consists of deployments for the [*seqr* application](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr), the [`redis` cache](https://github.com/redis/redis), the [`postgresql` relational database](https://github.com/postgres/postgres) and the [`clickhouse` columnar analytics database](https://clickhouse.com/docs/intro).  The `redis` and `postgresql` services may be disabled if `seqr` is running in a cloud environment with access to managed services.  Note that this deployment does not include support for `elasticsearch`.
1. The [pipeline-runner](charts/pipeline-runner) application chart contains the multiple services that make up the [*seqr* loading pipeline](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr-loading-pipelines).  This chart also runs the [luigi scheduler user interface](https://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/central_scheduler.html) to view running pipeline tasks.
1. A [lib](charts/lib) library chart for resources shared
between the other charts.
1. The [*seqr-platform*](charts/seqr-platform) umbrella chart that bundles the composing charts into a single installable.

## Instructions for Initial Deployment

The Kubernetes ecosystem contains many standardized and custom solutions across a [wide range of cloud and on-premises environments](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/turnkey-solutions/).  To avoid the complexity of a full-fledged [production environment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/) and to achieve parity with the [existing docker-compose](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/docker-compose.yml), we recommend setting up a simple local Kubernetes cluster on an on-premises server or a cloud Virtual Machine with at least `32GB` of memory and `750GB` of disk space. While there is no requirement for the minimum number of CPUs, having more available will significantly speed up data loading and some searches.

Install the four required kubernetes infrastructure components:
1. The [`docker`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) container engine.
    - If running `Docker Desktop` on a laptop, make sure to set your CPU and Memory limits under Settings > Resources > Advanced.
    - If running on linux, make sure docker can be run without `sudo` (https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)
1. The [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) command line client.
1. The [`kind`](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation) local cluster manager.
1. The [`helm`](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) package manager.

Then:
1. Create a local `/var/seqr` directory to be mounted into the Kubernetes cluster.  This will host all seqr application data:
    ```
    sudo mkdir -p /var/seqr
    sudo chmod 777 /var/seqr 
    ```
1. Start a `kind` cluster:
    ```
    curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/broadinstitute/seqr-helm/refs/heads/main/kind.yaml > kind.yaml
    kind create cluster --config kind.yaml
    ```
    *Note that kubernetes can have unexpected behavior when run with `sudo`. Make sure to run this and all other `kubectl`/`kind`/`helm` commands without it*
1. Create the [Required Secrets](#required-secrets) in your cluster using `kubectl`.
1. [Migrate](#migrating-application-data-from-docker-composeyaml) any existing application data.
1. Install the `seqr-platform` chart with any [override values](#valuesenvironment-overrides):
    ```
    helm repo add seqr-helm https://broadinstitute.github.io/seqr-helm
    helm install YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr seqr-helm/seqr-platform
    ```

After install you should expect to something like:

```
helm install YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr seqr-helm/seqr-platform 
NAME: YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Oct 16 14:50:22 2024
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
```

The first deployment will include a download of all of the genomic reference data (~350GB as of 6/2025 but variable).  It is likely to be slow, but can be monitored by checking the contents of `/var/seqr/seqr-reference-data`.  Additionally, you may check the status of the services with:

```
kubectl get pods
NAME                                        READY   STATUS      RESTARTS      AGE
seqr-clickhouse-shard0-0                    4/4     Running     0             22m
pipeline-runner-api-5557bbc7-vrtcj          2/2     Running     0             22m
pipeline-runner-ui-749c94468f-62rtv         1/1     Running     0             22m
seqr-68d7b855fb-bjppn                       1/1     Running     0             22m
seqr-check-new-samples-job-28818190-vlhxj   0/1     Completed   0             22m
seqr-postgresql-0                           1/1     Running     0             22m
seqr-redis-master-0                         1/1     Running     0             22m
```

While the reference data is downloading, the pipeline-runner-api pod should be in the `Init` state

```
pipeline-runner-api-5557bbc7-vrtcj        0/2     Init:0/4    0             8m51s
```

Once services are healthy, you may create a seqr admin user using the pod name from the above output:

```
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py createsuperuser
```

## Required Secrets

The *seqr* application expects a few secrets to be defined for the services to start.  The default expected secrets are declared in the [default `values.yaml`](charts/seqr/values.yaml#L73) file of the *seqr* application chart.  You should create these secrets in your kubernetes cluster prior to attempting to install the chart.

1. A secret containing a `password` field for the postgres database password.  By default this secret is named `postgres-secrets`.
1. A secret containing a `django_key` field for the django security key.  By default this secret is named `seqr-secrets`.
1. A secret containing `admin_password`, `writer_password`, and `reader_password` fields for the the clickhouse database passwords.  By default this secret is named `clickhouse-secrets`.  Note that your passwords should not contain dashes!

Here's how you might create the secrets:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic postgres-secrets \
  --from-literal=password='super-secure-password'

kubectl create secret generic seqr-secrets \
  --from-literal=django_key='securely-generated-key'
```

Alternatively, you can use your preferred method for defining secrets in kubernetes. For example, you might use [External Secrets](https://external-secrets.io/) to synchronize secrets from your cloud provider into your kubernetes cluster.

## Migrating Application Data from `docker-compose.yaml`

- If you wish to preserve your existing application state in `postgresql`, you may move your existing [`./data/postgres`](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L11) to `/var/seqr/postgresql-data`.  You should see:

```
cat /var/seqr/postgresql-data/PG_VERSION
12
```

- To migrate static files, you may move your existing [`./data/seqr_static_files`](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L63)  to [`/var/seqr/seqr-static-media`](charts/seqr/values.yaml#L58).

- To migrate `readviz`, you may move your existing [`./data/readviz`](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L62) directory to [`/var/seqr/seqr-static-media`](charts/seqr/values.yaml#L58) and additionally run the `update_igv_location.py` `manage.py` command:

```
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py update_igv_location old_prefix new_prefix
```

Note that you do not need to migrate any elasticsearch data.

## Values/Environment Overrides

All default values in the `seqr-platform` chart may be overriden with [helm's Values file functionality](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/values_files/).  For example, to disable the `postgresql` deployment, you might create a file `my-values.yaml` with the contents:
```
seqr:
  postgresql:
    enabled: false
```

This is also the recommended pattern for overriding any `seqr` environment variables:

```
seqr:
  environment:
    GUNICORN_WORKER_THREADS: "8"
```

A more comprehensive example of what this may look like, and how the different values are formated in practice, is found in the [*seqr* unit tests](unit_test/seqr/values.yaml).

## Updating *seqr*
To fetch the latest versions of the `helm` infrastructure and `seqr` application code, you may run:
```
helm repo update
helm upgrade YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr seqr-helm/seqr-platform
```

To update reference data in seqr, such as OMIM, HPO, etc., run the following. By default, this will be run automatically 
as a cron job.
```bash
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py update_all_reference_data
```

To update the ClinVar reference data used in search, run the following.  By default, this will be run automatically
as a cron job.
```bash
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py reload_clinvar_all_variants
```

## Migrating *seqr* from the `hail-search` backend to the `clickhouse` backend.
The `seqr-platform` update from the `1.45.0-hail-search-final` to `2.0.0` is breaking and requires manual interventions to potentially update an environment variable and migrate the search data.  Here is the full sequence of steps:

1.  Update `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` to `PIPELINE_DATA_DIR`.
The `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` environment variable has been deprecated in favor of a `PIPELINE_DATA_DIR` variable shared between the application and pipeline.  If you have not altered your `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` and wish to continue using the defaults, you should rename your `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` to the default `PIPELINE_DATA_DIR`.
```
sudo mv /var/seqr/seqr-hail-search-data /var/seqr/pipeline-data
```
and proceed to step #2.

If you have altered the default `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` you should set in your override `my-values.yaml`:
```
global:
  seqr:
    environment:
      PIPELINE_DATA_DIR: # current value of HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR
```

2. Upgrade your `helm` installation:
```
helm upgrade YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr seqr-helm/seqr-platform -f my-values.yaml
```
This step should remove the `hail-search` pod and create a `clickhouse` pod.

3. Export the `hail-search` tables to the `clickhouse`-ingestable format.  Run the following commands:
```
# Get the POD-ID of the pipeline-runner pod
$ kubectl get pods | grep pipeline-runner-api
pipeline-runner-api-POD-ID            2/2     Running     0          119m

# Login to the pipeline-runner sidecar
$ kubectl exec pipeline-runner-api-POD-ID -c pipeline-runner-api-sidecar -it -- bash

# Run the migration script
$ python3 -m 'v03_pipeline.bin.migrate_all_projects_to_clickhouse'
```

The migration is fully supported whether or not you have configured your environment to run the loading pipeline [on GCP dataproc](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/deploy/LOCAL_INSTALL_HELM.md#option-2) and will run in the same environment as data loading.  It is also idempotent, so can safely be run multile times in case of failures.

The migration should take a few minutes per project, substantially less than loading directly from VCF.  To check the status of the migration and to debug if required:
- Each project hail table is exported into the format produced by the loading pipeline as if it were a new run.  For each of your loaded projects, you should expect a directory to be created:
```
$PIPELINE_DATA_DIR/{ReferenceGenome}/{DatasetType}/runs/hail_search_to_clickhouse_migration_{project_guid}
```
- Run directory ingestion is managed by a sidecar within the `clickhouse` pod.  To tail logs:
```
kubectl logs seqr-clickhouse-shard0-0 -c clickhouse-loader -f
```
- Once the run has been successfully loaded into `clickhouse`, you should expect a new file:
```
$PIPELINE_DATA_DIR/{ReferenceGenome}/{DatasetType}/runs/hail_search_to_clickhouse_migration-{random_str}_{project_guid}/_CLICKHOUSE_LOAD_SUCCESS
```

## Debugging FAQ
- How do I uninstall `seqr` and remove all application data?
```
helm uninstall YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr
kind delete cluster
rm -rf /var/seqr
```
- How do I view `seqr`'s disk utilization?
You may access the size of each of the on-disk components with:
```
du -sh /var/seqr/*
```
- How do I tail logs?
To tail the logs of the pipeline worker after you have started a pipeline run, for example:
```
kubectl get pods -o name | grep pipeline-runner-api
pipeline-runner-api-5557bbc7-vrtcj
kubectl logs pipeline-runner-api-5557bbc7-vrtcj -c pipeline-runner-api-sidecar
2024-10-16 18:24:27 - pipeline_worker - INFO - Waiting for work
2024-10-16 18:24:28 - pipeline_worker - INFO - Waiting for work
2024-10-16 18:24:29 - pipeline_worker - INFO - Waiting for work
....
base_hail_table - INFO - UpdatedCachedReferenceDatasetQuery(reference_genome=GRCh37, dataset_type=SNV_INDEL, crdq=CLINVAR_PATH_VARIANTS) start
[Stage 42:========>
```

Commit message:

add instructions for set_saved_variant_key

README.md, after:

# seqr-helm
Helm charts for the *seqr* platform

## Overview
This repo consists of helm charts defining the seqr platform.  [Helm](https://helm.sh) is a package manager for [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io), an open source system for automating deployment and management of containerized applications.  

1. The [*seqr*](charts/seqr) application chart consists of deployments for the [*seqr* application](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr), the [`redis` cache](https://github.com/redis/redis), the [`postgresql` relational database](https://github.com/postgres/postgres) and the [`clickhouse` columnar analytics database](https://clickhouse.com/docs/intro).  The `redis` and `postgresql` services may be disabled if `seqr` is running in a cloud environment with access to managed services.  Note that this deployment does not include support for `elasticsearch`.
1. The [pipeline-runner](charts/pipeline-runner) application chart contains the multiple services that make up the [*seqr* loading pipeline](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr-loading-pipelines).  This chart also runs the [luigi scheduler user interface](https://luigi.readthedocs.io/en/stable/central_scheduler.html) to view running pipeline tasks.
1. A [lib](charts/lib) library chart for resources shared
between the other charts.
1. The [*seqr-platform*](charts/seqr-platform) umbrella chart that bundles the composing charts into a single installable.

## Instructions for Initial Deployment

The Kubernetes ecosystem contains many standardized and custom solutions across a [wide range of cloud and on-premises environments](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/turnkey-solutions/).  To avoid the complexity of a full-fledged [production environment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/) and to achieve parity with the [existing docker-compose](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/docker-compose.yml), we recommend setting up a simple local Kubernetes cluster on an on-premises server or a cloud Virtual Machine with at least `32GB` of memory and `750GB` of disk space. While there is no requirement for the minimum number of CPUs, having more available will significantly speed up data loading and some searches.

Install the four required kubernetes infrastructure components:
1. The [`docker`](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) container engine.
    - If running `Docker Desktop` on a laptop, make sure to set your CPU and Memory limits under Settings > Resources > Advanced.
    - If running on linux, make sure docker can be run without `sudo` (https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)
1. The [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) command line client.
1. The [`kind`](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation) local cluster manager.
1. The [`helm`](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) package manager.

Then:
1. Create a local `/var/seqr` directory to be mounted into the Kubernetes cluster.  This will host all seqr application data:
    ```
    sudo mkdir -p /var/seqr
    sudo chmod 777 /var/seqr 
    ```
1. Start a `kind` cluster:
    ```
    curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/broadinstitute/seqr-helm/refs/heads/main/kind.yaml > kind.yaml
    kind create cluster --config kind.yaml
    ```
    *Note that kubernetes can have unexpected behavior when run with `sudo`. Make sure to run this and all other `kubectl`/`kind`/`helm` commands without it*
1. Create the [Required Secrets](#required-secrets) in your cluster using `kubectl`.
1. [Migrate](#migrating-application-data-from-docker-composeyaml) any existing application data.
1. Install the `seqr-platform` chart with any [override values](#valuesenvironment-overrides):
    ```
    helm repo add seqr-helm https://broadinstitute.github.io/seqr-helm
    helm install YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr seqr-helm/seqr-platform
    ```

After install you should expect to something like:

```
helm install YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr seqr-helm/seqr-platform 
NAME: YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Oct 16 14:50:22 2024
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
```

The first deployment will include a download of all of the genomic reference data (~350GB as of 6/2025 but variable).  It is likely to be slow, but can be monitored by checking the contents of `/var/seqr/seqr-reference-data`.  Additionally, you may check the status of the services with:

```
kubectl get pods
NAME                                        READY   STATUS      RESTARTS      AGE
seqr-clickhouse-shard0-0                    4/4     Running     0             22m
pipeline-runner-api-5557bbc7-vrtcj          2/2     Running     0             22m
pipeline-runner-ui-749c94468f-62rtv         1/1     Running     0             22m
seqr-68d7b855fb-bjppn                       1/1     Running     0             22m
seqr-check-new-samples-job-28818190-vlhxj   0/1     Completed   0             22m
seqr-postgresql-0                           1/1     Running     0             22m
seqr-redis-master-0                         1/1     Running     0             22m
```

While the reference data is downloading, the pipeline-runner-api pod should be in the `Init` state

```
pipeline-runner-api-5557bbc7-vrtcj        0/2     Init:0/4    0             8m51s
```

Once services are healthy, you may create a seqr admin user using the pod name from the above output:

```
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py createsuperuser
```

## Required Secrets

The *seqr* application expects a few secrets to be defined for the services to start.  The default expected secrets are declared in the [default `values.yaml`](charts/seqr/values.yaml#L73) file of the *seqr* application chart.  You should create these secrets in your kubernetes cluster prior to attempting to install the chart.

1. A secret containing a `password` field for the postgres database password.  By default this secret is named `postgres-secrets`.
1. A secret containing a `django_key` field for the django security key.  By default this secret is named `seqr-secrets`.
1. A secret containing `admin_password`, `writer_password`, and `reader_password` fields for the the clickhouse database passwords.  By default this secret is named `clickhouse-secrets`.  Note that your passwords should not contain dashes!

Here's how you might create the secrets:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic postgres-secrets \
  --from-literal=password='super-secure-password'

kubectl create secret generic seqr-secrets \
  --from-literal=django_key='securely-generated-key'
```

Alternatively, you can use your preferred method for defining secrets in kubernetes. For example, you might use [External Secrets](https://external-secrets.io/) to synchronize secrets from your cloud provider into your kubernetes cluster.

## Migrating Application Data from `docker-compose.yaml`

- If you wish to preserve your existing application state in `postgresql`, you may move your existing [`./data/postgres`](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L11) to `/var/seqr/postgresql-data`.  You should see:

```
cat /var/seqr/postgresql-data/PG_VERSION
12
```

- To migrate static files, you may move your existing [`./data/seqr_static_files`](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L63)  to [`/var/seqr/seqr-static-media`](charts/seqr/values.yaml#L58).

- To migrate `readviz`, you may move your existing [`./data/readviz`](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L62) directory to [`/var/seqr/seqr-static-media`](charts/seqr/values.yaml#L58) and additionally run the `update_igv_location.py` `manage.py` command:

```
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py update_igv_location old_prefix new_prefix
```

Note that you do not need to migrate any elasticsearch data, although in order to continue to perform searches all data will need to be reloaded from VCF using the standard data loading process.

After re-loading all the data that will continue to be used in search, we recommend running the following one-time command to ensure that previously saved variants stay in sync with the latest available annotations going forward:

```
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py set_saved_variant_key
```

## Values/Environment Overrides

All default values in the `seqr-platform` chart may be overriden with [helm's Values file functionality](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/values_files/).  For example, to disable the `postgresql` deployment, you might create a file `my-values.yaml` with the contents:
```
seqr:
  postgresql:
    enabled: false
```

This is also the recommended pattern for overriding any `seqr` environment variables:

```
seqr:
  environment:
    GUNICORN_WORKER_THREADS: "8"
```

A more comprehensive example of what this may look like, and how the different values are formated in practice, is found in the [*seqr* unit tests](unit_test/seqr/values.yaml).

## Updating *seqr*
To fetch the latest versions of the `helm` infrastructure and `seqr` application code, you may run:
```
helm repo update
helm upgrade YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr seqr-helm/seqr-platform
```

To update reference data in seqr, such as OMIM, HPO, etc., run the following. By default, this will be run automatically 
as a cron job.
```bash
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py update_all_reference_data
```

To update the ClinVar reference data used in search, run the following.  By default, this will be run automatically
as a cron job.
```bash
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py reload_clinvar_all_variants
```

## Migrating *seqr* from the `hail-search` backend to the `clickhouse` backend.
The `seqr-platform` update from the `1.45.0-hail-search-final` to `2.0.0` is breaking and requires manual interventions to potentially update an environment variable and migrate the search data.  Here is the full sequence of steps:

1.  Update `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` to `PIPELINE_DATA_DIR`.
The `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` environment variable has been deprecated in favor of a `PIPELINE_DATA_DIR` variable shared between the application and pipeline.  If you have not altered your `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` and wish to continue using the defaults, you should rename your `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` to the default `PIPELINE_DATA_DIR`.
```
sudo mv /var/seqr/seqr-hail-search-data /var/seqr/pipeline-data
```
and proceed to step #2.

If you have altered the default `HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR` you should set in your override `my-values.yaml`:
```
global:
  seqr:
    environment:
      PIPELINE_DATA_DIR: # current value of HAIL_SEARCH_DATA_DIR
```

2. Upgrade your `helm` installation:
```
helm upgrade YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr seqr-helm/seqr-platform -f my-values.yaml
```
This step should remove the `hail-search` pod and create a `clickhouse` pod.

3. Export the `hail-search` tables to the `clickhouse`-ingestable format.  Run the following commands:
```
# Get the POD-ID of the pipeline-runner pod
$ kubectl get pods | grep pipeline-runner-api
pipeline-runner-api-POD-ID            2/2     Running     0          119m

# Login to the pipeline-runner sidecar
$ kubectl exec pipeline-runner-api-POD-ID -c pipeline-runner-api-sidecar -it -- bash

# Run the migration script
$ python3 -m 'v03_pipeline.bin.migrate_all_projects_to_clickhouse'
```

The migration is fully supported whether or not you have configured your environment to run the loading pipeline [on GCP dataproc](https://github.com/broadinstitute/seqr/blob/master/deploy/LOCAL_INSTALL_HELM.md#option-2) and will run in the same environment as data loading.  It is also idempotent, so can safely be run multile times in case of failures.

The migration should take a few minutes per project, substantially less than loading directly from VCF.  To check the status of the migration and to debug if required:
- Each project hail table is exported into the format produced by the loading pipeline as if it were a new run.  For each of your loaded projects, you should expect a directory to be created:
```
$PIPELINE_DATA_DIR/{ReferenceGenome}/{DatasetType}/runs/hail_search_to_clickhouse_migration_{project_guid}
```
- Run directory ingestion is managed by a sidecar within the `clickhouse` pod.  To tail logs:
```
kubectl logs seqr-clickhouse-shard0-0 -c clickhouse-loader -f
```
- Once the run has been successfully loaded into `clickhouse`, you should expect a new file:
```
$PIPELINE_DATA_DIR/{ReferenceGenome}/{DatasetType}/runs/hail_search_to_clickhouse_migration-{random_str}_{project_guid}/_CLICKHOUSE_LOAD_SUCCESS
```

After all migrations have successfully completed, run the following command to ensure that previously saved variants stay in sync with the latest available annotations going forward:

```
kubectl exec seqr-POD-ID -c seqr -it -- bash
python3 /seqr/manage.py set_saved_variant_key
```

## Debugging FAQ
- How do I uninstall `seqr` and remove all application data?
```
helm uninstall YOUR_INSTITUTION_NAME-seqr
kind delete cluster
rm -rf /var/seqr
```
- How do I view `seqr`'s disk utilization?
You may access the size of each of the on-disk components with:
```
du -sh /var/seqr/*
```
- How do I tail logs?
To tail the logs of the pipeline worker after you have started a pipeline run, for example:
```
kubectl get pods -o name | grep pipeline-runner-api
pipeline-runner-api-5557bbc7-vrtcj
kubectl logs pipeline-runner-api-5557bbc7-vrtcj -c pipeline-runner-api-sidecar
2024-10-16 18:24:27 - pipeline_worker - INFO - Waiting for work
2024-10-16 18:24:28 - pipeline_worker - INFO - Waiting for work
2024-10-16 18:24:29 - pipeline_worker - INFO - Waiting for work
....
base_hail_table - INFO - UpdatedCachedReferenceDatasetQuery(reference_genome=GRCh37, dataset_type=SNV_INDEL, crdq=CLINVAR_PATH_VARIANTS) start
[Stage 42:========>
```
